We are not what we should be
We are not what we need to be
But at least we are not what we used to be
  -- Football Coach

Nhan Cao
Phil 211 – Ancient Greek Philosophy
First Paper Assignment 
September 12th 2018
1008 words

[416b5, pp.101: "They must have the right education, whatever it is, if they are going to have what will do most to make them gentle to one another and to the ones they are guarding.”]

	Amid the discussion between Adeimantus, Socrates and Glaucon about “Justice,” an important topic comes up about the selection of the guardians of the city. Socrates has established his idea about the ideal rulers as well as guardians for the city. He states, as quoted above, that the true, best guardians should be those with the “right education” which is the safeguard to keep them on a straight path.
	Rulers and guardians are set to be the most noble roles in the society since they require the most precious material; “gold” and “silver” (100) souls. Coming along with a short, simple job description “do what is best for the city” (97) is a whole challenge awaits whoever takes the position, the challenge of overcoming the great temptation of discarding their belief in the system. In this case, Socrates holds that since the belief in justice for the city cannot fail, it means people could only discard the belief involuntarily, which could result from one of the three causes: theft, sorcery, or compulsion. Theft of belief happens when one is persuaded, tricked, or, over time, forgets and eventually has his or her belief taken away without noticing. It targets one’s mind, leaving the victim in the illusion that he or she is still on justice’s side. The second form is sorcery, which focuses on human emotion, seduces them by pleasure, threatens them with fear, pushes them by anger, and so on. At least in this case, one could still happily betray justice. The last form is compulsion, which is through pain or suffering, forces one into making a decision completely against his or her own will. In this case, one is still clear right from wrong but could not choose to comply justice since it would cause great suffering. Those three forms of deceptions are, says Glaucon, different shades on a spectrum of sorcery, which is the term they uses to address the threats that could make a just man commit an unjust act. For one to overcome these forms deceptions, he must be composed of honorable characteristics and possess a soul made of “silver” or “gold.” It takes both physical and mental strength to prevail over the influence of sorcery, to stay on the side of justice and keep benefiting the city as well as its citizens, and to stand firm against deceiving arguments, seductive pleasure, or even agony pain. To possess such strength, one must not only to be born with great characteristics but also undergo proper training and education to help prepare for these sort of challenges he is destined to face.
	If the city’s safety and benefit are to entrusted solely to a certain group which is the rulers and their auxiliaries, it is dire to make sure people are in the right hands. The auxiliaries are those with strength and granted authorities, making it most terrible if they are to evil the people they are supposed to protect. For that not to happen, Socrates insists on having them undergo the “right education.” (101) He proposes the idea of “[subjecting] them to labors, pains, and contests,” (98) and see what they are made of. He wants to put them through misery and after that throw them back to pleasures, testing if they could withstand the urge to give in to their mortal desire. He also has the idea of inflicting a “useful, noble lie” (99) about the material of heroism and honor to the society, classifying those with honorable characteristics and great immunity against sorcery to have their soul made of gold and silver, and others as bronze and iron. This is not to praise one and disgrace the other class, but to put them into the right place where the city can benefit the most from them. This surely is not aiming for the current crowd since it is a heavy task to convince them to believe in something like this, but for the next generations as it is easier to implant the seeds of the new idea into young, fresh minds. The idea is to make them think of their land as their mother and their neighbor as their own brothers, creating a connection, a bond tying them to do good for their own city, protect it from the outside foes, and keep their friends from doing evil. Socrates wants to educate the people in a way that makes the idea of benefiting the city something that they desire deep down in their heart, making justice become an even stronger pulse in they inner battle between the good and evil. His ideal picture of the protectors of the city is not those who just have immense strength to go to war with the enemies, but also have great compassion with their comrades and their people. Finally, Socrates plans for the guardians to completely detach themselves from the mundane aspect of the mortal world, focus mainly on the “gold and silver of a divine sort in their souls as a permanent gift from the gods” (102), leading them to a lifestyle where “it is impious for them to defile this divine possession by possessing an admixture of mortal gold.“ (102) If they are to remove themselves from the clutter of mortal desires, they would be immune to all the mundane temptations. In the end, the education that Socrates demands is the education that makes the city defenders protect their city deliberately, wholeheartedly, “regard their citizens as their earthborn brothers,” (100) and detach themselves from the mortal needs of luxury which is the source of most evil.
	For a society to prosper in justice, it must be lead by the best guardians. They are the people who are not only born with a heart which strongly yearns for justice but are also able to prevail over the temptation to give in to the sorcery that is waiting out there to strip justice from them. For that to happen, Socrates holds the idea of the “right education” where he forge the best out of the best men.

References

Plato. Republic. Translated by C. D. C. Reeve, Hackett Publishing Company, Inc., 2004.



